README.md, before:

# sesdev - CLI tool to deploy and manage SES/Ceph clusters

`sesdev` is a CLI tool to deploy Ceph clusters (both the upstream and SUSE
downstream versions).

This tool uses [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) behind the scenes to create
the VMs and run the deployment scripts.

## Installation

First, you should have both [QEMU](https://www.qemu.org/) and
[Libvirt](https://libvirt.org/) installed in some machine to host the VMs
created by sesdev (using Vagrant behind the scenes).

Installable packages for various Linux distributions like Fedora or openSUSE can be
found on the [openSUSE Build Service](https://software.opensuse.org//download.html?project=home%3Arjdias&package=sesdev) (OBS).

### Installation on openSUSE

#### Install KVM/QEMU + Libvirt

```
$ sudo zypper -n install patterns-openSUSE-kvm_server \
patterns-server-kvm_tools bridge-utils
$ sudo systemctl enable libvirtd
$ sudo systemctl restart libvirtd
```

#### Install sesdev from package

```
$ sudo zypper ar https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/rjdias:/sesdev/<repo> sesdev_repo
$ sudo zypper ar https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/Virtualization:/vagrant/<repo> vagrant_repo
$ sudo zypper ref
$ sudo zypper install sesdev
```

Where `<repo>` can be either `openSUSE_Leap_15.1` or `openSUSE_Tumbleweed`.

### Installation on Fedora Linux

#### Install KVM/QEMU + Libvirt

```
$ sudo dnf install qemu-common qemu-kvm libvirt-daemon-kvm \
libvirt-daemon libvirt-daemon-driver-qemu vagrant-libvirt
$ sudo systemctl enable libvirtd
$ sudo systemctl restart libvirtd
```

#### Install sesdev from package

```
$ sudo dnf config-manager --add-repo \
https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:rjdias/<distro>/home:rjdias.repo
dnf install sesdev
```

Where `<distro>` can be either `Fedora_29` or `Fedora_30`.

### Install sesdev from source

```
$ git clone https://github.com/rjfd/sesdev.git
$ cd sesdev
$ virtualenv --python=<path_to_python3> venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
$ pip install .
```

## Usage

Run `sesdev --help` or `sesdev <command> --help` to get check the available options and
description of the commands.

### Create/Deploy cluster

To create a single node Ceph cluster based on nautilus/leap-15.1 on your local
system, run the following command:

```
$ sesdev create nautilus --single-node mini
```

The `mini` argument is the ID of the deployment. We can create many deployments
by giving them different IDs.

If you would like to start the cluster VMs on a remote server via libvirt/SSH,
create a configuration file `$HOME/.sesdev/config.yaml` with the following
content:

```
libvirt_use_ssh: true
libvirt_user: <ssh_user>
libvirt_host: <hostname|ip address>
```

Note that passwordless SSH access to this user@host combination needs to be
configured and enabled.

To create a multi-node Ceph cluster, we can specify the roles of each node as
follows:

```
$ sesdev create nautilus --roles="[admin, mon], [storage, mon, mgr, mds], [storage, mon, mgr, mds], [igw, ganesha, rgw]" big_cluster

```

The roles of each node are grouped in square brackets, separated by commas. The
nodes are separated by commas, too.

The cluster generated will have 4 nodes: the admin node that is running the
salt-master and one MON, two storage nodes that will also run a MON, a MGR and
an MDS, and another node that will run an iSCSI gateway, nfs-ganesha gateway,
and an RGW gateway.

### Listing deployments

```
$ sesdev list
```

### SSH access to the cluster

```
$ sesdev ssh <deployment_id> [NODE]
```

Spawns an SSH shell to the admin node, or to node `NODE` if explicitly
specified. You can check the existing node names with the following command:

```
$ sesdev info <deployment_id>
```

### Services port-forwarding

It's possible to use an SSH tunnel to enble TCP port-forwarding for a service
running in the cluster. Currently, only the dashboard service is implemented.

```
$ sesdev tunnel <deployment_id> dashboard
```

The command will output the URL that you can use to access the dashboard.

Commit message:

README.md: tell folks to add themselves to the libvirt group
Signed-off-by: Nathan Cutler <ncutler@suse.com>

README.md, after:

# sesdev - CLI tool to deploy and manage SES/Ceph clusters

`sesdev` is a CLI tool to deploy Ceph clusters (both the upstream and SUSE
downstream versions).

This tool uses [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) behind the scenes to create
the VMs and run the deployment scripts.

## Installation

First, you should have both [QEMU](https://www.qemu.org/) and
[Libvirt](https://libvirt.org/) installed in some machine to host the VMs
created by sesdev (using Vagrant behind the scenes).

Installable packages for various Linux distributions like Fedora or openSUSE can be
found on the [openSUSE Build Service](https://software.opensuse.org//download.html?project=home%3Arjdias&package=sesdev) (OBS).

### Installation on openSUSE

#### Install KVM/QEMU + Libvirt

```
$ sudo zypper -n install patterns-openSUSE-kvm_server \
patterns-server-kvm_tools bridge-utils
$ sudo systemctl enable libvirtd
$ sudo systemctl restart libvirtd
```

#### Install sesdev from package

```
$ sudo zypper ar https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/rjdias:/sesdev/<repo> sesdev_repo
$ sudo zypper ar https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/Virtualization:/vagrant/<repo> vagrant_repo
$ sudo zypper ref
$ sudo zypper install sesdev
```

Where `<repo>` can be either `openSUSE_Leap_15.1` or `openSUSE_Tumbleweed`.

### Installation on Fedora Linux

#### Install KVM/QEMU + Libvirt

```
$ sudo dnf install qemu-common qemu-kvm libvirt-daemon-kvm \
libvirt-daemon libvirt-daemon-driver-qemu vagrant-libvirt
$ sudo systemctl enable libvirtd
$ sudo systemctl restart libvirtd
```

#### Install sesdev from package

```
$ sudo dnf config-manager --add-repo \
https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:rjdias/<distro>/home:rjdias.repo
dnf install sesdev
```

Where `<distro>` can be either `Fedora_29` or `Fedora_30`.

### Install sesdev from source

```
$ git clone https://github.com/rjfd/sesdev.git
$ cd sesdev
$ virtualenv --python=<path_to_python3> venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
$ pip install .
```

### Add user to libvirt group

If you are running libvirt on the same machine where you installed sesdev,
add your user to the "libvirt" group to avoid "no polkit agent available"
errors when vagrant attempts to connect to the libvirt daemon:

```
$ groupadd libvirt
groupadd: group 'libvirt' already exists
$ usermod -a -G libvirt $USER
```

Log out, and then log back in. You should now be a member of the "libvirt"
group.

## Usage

Run `sesdev --help` or `sesdev <command> --help` to get check the available options and
description of the commands.

### Create/Deploy cluster

To create a single node Ceph cluster based on nautilus/leap-15.1 on your local
system, run the following command:

```
$ sesdev create nautilus --single-node mini
```

The `mini` argument is the ID of the deployment. We can create many deployments
by giving them different IDs.

If you would like to start the cluster VMs on a remote server via libvirt/SSH,
create a configuration file `$HOME/.sesdev/config.yaml` with the following
content:

```
libvirt_use_ssh: true
libvirt_user: <ssh_user>
libvirt_host: <hostname|ip address>
```

Note that passwordless SSH access to this user@host combination needs to be
configured and enabled.

To create a multi-node Ceph cluster, we can specify the roles of each node as
follows:

```
$ sesdev create nautilus --roles="[admin, mon], [storage, mon, mgr, mds], [storage, mon, mgr, mds], [igw, ganesha, rgw]" big_cluster

```

The roles of each node are grouped in square brackets, separated by commas. The
nodes are separated by commas, too.

The cluster generated will have 4 nodes: the admin node that is running the
salt-master and one MON, two storage nodes that will also run a MON, a MGR and
an MDS, and another node that will run an iSCSI gateway, nfs-ganesha gateway,
and an RGW gateway.

### Listing deployments

```
$ sesdev list
```

### SSH access to the cluster

```
$ sesdev ssh <deployment_id> [NODE]
```

Spawns an SSH shell to the admin node, or to node `NODE` if explicitly
specified. You can check the existing node names with the following command:

```
$ sesdev info <deployment_id>
```

### Services port-forwarding

It's possible to use an SSH tunnel to enble TCP port-forwarding for a service
running in the cluster. Currently, only the dashboard service is implemented.

```
$ sesdev tunnel <deployment_id> dashboard
```

The command will output the URL that you can use to access the dashboard.
